---
layout: post
title: raspberry pi skills
---

# 1. disable internal wifi on boot 2017-06-15 10:35 
 Just put these to the file /etc/modprobe.d/raspi-blacklist.conf
 {% highlight bash %}
 blacklist brcmfmac
 blacklist brcmutil
 {% endhighlight %}

# 2. use normal lan cable to connect laptop with rpi
  This procedure is extremely important when using headless rpi as logger in the remote area.
  For the rpi, one needs to append a small text in the file /boot/cmdline.txt:
 {% highlight bash %}
  ip=169.254.10.10
 {% endhighlight %}
   Note that there is a space between the new string and existing strings. by doing this, one always gets same ip address at eth0:
 {% highlight bash %}
 pi@camellia:~ $ ifconfig
 eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr b8:27:eb:83:c8:9d  
           inet addr:169.254.10.10  Bcast:169.254.255.255  Mask:255.255.0.0
           inet6 addr: fe80::ba27:ebff:fe83:c89d/64 Scope:Link
           UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
           RX packets:70 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
           TX packets:132 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
           collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
           RX bytes:12403 (12.1 KiB)  TX bytes:22786 (22.2 KiB)
 {% endhighlight %}


 For the laptop, one needs to do assign a static ip address as rpi has done. my laptop with Debian does not come up with file /boot/cmdline.txt and so I choose to change file /etc/network/interfaces

 {% highlight bash %}
 source /etc/network/interfaces.d/*
 
 # The loopback network interface
 auto lo
 iface lo inet loopback
 
 
 auto eth2
 iface eth2 inet static
     #your static IP
     #address 192.168.1.118  
     address 169.254.10.5
     #your gateway IP
     netmask 255.255.0.0
     #your network address "family"
     broadcast 169.254.255.255
 {% endhighlight %}
 
 
 now the system always get ip based on the static prescription.
# 3. connecting 10 hdmi cable for rpi camera2018-01-05 16:46

 I wish to use 10m hdmi cable to work with pi camera using tindie flex cable to hdmi converter. it was found that 5m hdmi cable works perfectly fine while 10m would have strong noise. turns out, the noise could be reduced simply by shorten all the flex cable to 5cm. this suggests that high frequence data transimission does require proper cables.


# 4. list of apps to install for pi

{% highlight bash %}
apt-get install tmux mplayer tightvncserver rdesktop htop vim git ffmpeg vlc python-rpi.gpio ipython
{% endhighlight %}

# 5. change time zone

{% highlight bash %}
# dpkg-reconfigure tzdata
{% endhighlight %}
# 6. if arduino code is not correct, it may cause low power for rpi in the logger.

# 6. a powered arduino connecting a non-powered rpi through usb cable will let rpi powered up.

# 7. storing a raspberry pi image:

    (a). use gparted to shrink the empty space

    (b). use 

{% highlight bash %}
dd if=/dev/mmcblk0 of=/home/YOUR_USERNAME/Desktop/backup.img bs=1M count=2048
sync
{% endhighlight %}

to save the file, the size is estimated to be 1M* 2048 for the case above.

when extracting the image to disk first
{% highlight bash %}
dd if=/home/YOUR_USERNAME/Desktop/backup.img of=/dev/sdc bs=1M 
sync
{% endhighlight %}

and do not forget to use gparted to enlarge your space!

reference:
https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=26&t=5947&start=25
https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/36456/how-to-shrink-an-image-file-after-allocating-full-space

# 8. use pi as a router:

put the below to /et/dhcpcd.conf, i think the server always need to determine their own IP in the first place

```
interface wlan0
    static ip_address=192.168.4.1/24
```
becareful that debian squeeze seems not having this TO180620

add the following to /etc/dnsmasq.conf
```
interface=wlan0      # Use the require wireless interface - usually wlan0
  dhcp-range=192.168.4.2,192.168.4.20,255.255.255.0,24h
```
try infinite if one does not want the ip to be expired
then add the following to /etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf

```
interface=wlan0
driver=nl80211
ssid=hydrogeologger
hw_mode=g
channel=7
wmm_enabled=0
macaddr_acl=0
auth_algs=1
:x
wpa=2
wpa_passphrase=123456123
wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
wpa_pairwise=TKIP
rsn_pairwise=CCMP
```

after that, uncomment in /etc/default/hostapd

```
DAEMON_CONF="/etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf"
```

finally, restart the services

```
sudo systemctl start hostapd
sudo systemctl start dnsmasq
```
the next is to forward the data to one port that is supposed to have internet `eth0` here

/etc/sysctl.conf and uncomment this line:

```
net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
```

then run below two commands:

```
sudo iptables -t nat -A  POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
sudo sh -c "iptables-save > /etc/iptables.ipv4.nat"
```

save the rules on boot by Edit /etc/rc.local and add this just above "exit 0" to install these rules on boot.
```
iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.ipv4.nat

```
now reboot
reference:
https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/wireless/access-point.md

# 9. change img file without burning it:

first find out the number of partitions in the file by:

```
$ /sbin/fdisk -l 2018-06_21_rpi3_stretch_hydrogeolog.img
Disk 2018-06_21_rpi3_stretch_hydrogeolog.img: 9.8 GiB, 10485760000 bytes, 20480000 sectors
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: dos
Disk identifier: 0xc4b3f138

Device                                   Boot  Start      End  Sectors  Size Id Type
2018-06_21_rpi3_stretch_hydrogeolog.img1        8192   137215   129024   63M  c W95 FAT32 (LBA)
2018-06_21_rpi3_stretch_hydrogeolog.img2      **137216** 22067199 21929984 10.5G 83 Linux

```

so the start of the second partition is 137216\*512=70254592



the way to mount it would be:

```
mount -o loop,offset=70254592 2018-06_21_rpi3_stretch_hydrogeolog.img /home/user/usb
```

Reference:
https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/82314/how-to-find-the-type-of-an-img-file-and-mount-it
